DAY 2
On Day 2, i learnt about Risk , The basic formula of Risk , Key components of risk, Risk Management Definition and Strategies, Threat intelligence and types, SOurces of threat intelligenve and we finally went into KALI.

RISK MANAGEMENT AND THREAT MANAGEMENT

INTRODUCTION TO RISK
Risk is the potential for loss, damage or harm will occur when a threat exploits a vulnerability, resulting in a negative impact to an organization or an individual.
Risk is a probability of something bad happening.

The Basic Formula of Risk
Risk = Threat × Vulnerability × Impact
Sometimes expressed as;
Risk = likelihood × impact
Without one of these parameters there is no risk.

COMPONENT OF RISK ARE:
Threats: What could cause harm which are hackers, malware and insiders.
Vulnerabilities: Weak points, outdated software and weak passwords.
Impact: Consequences such as financial loss, downtime, legal issues.
Likelihood: The probability that something bad will actually happen.

RISK MANAGEMENT
Is the systematic process of identifying, analyzing and evaluating risks to determine their severity and priority.
Identifying what you need to protect
Discover
Find
Understand

RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES
Avoidance: don’t take the risk at all
Mitigation: Reduce the risk
Transfer: insurance, outsourcing
Acceptance: Live with it if low impact


THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Information that helps predict, prevent and respond to cyber attacks.
Why it matters is that it helps us stay ahead of attackers.

TYPES
Strategic TI, Tactical, Operational

Strategic TI
Strategic Threat Intelligence: (the tutor used the kidnapping in Okene road as example).
Big picture and long-term view (something that has been happening for long).
Audience: Executives, decision-makers.
Example: Rise of ransomware in healthcare, ransomware presents an attack that passes word all your files and you have to pay attackers to get access.

TACTICAL TI
specific attacker techniques, tactics and procedures (TTPs)
tells you specific information about the attackers, how they will operate and the procedures, gives you more information about all attackers than strategic TI.
Audience: SOC analysts, defenders.

OPERATIONAL TI
details on campaigns, malware or groups in real time.
e.g using okene road it gives you a real time of how those kidnappers are aggressive eg during festive period.
virustotal.com — use to verify a link if it is legit or scam.

SOURCES OF THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Open source intelligence (OSINT): using google to check links
Threat feeds (commercial or free): like facebook feeds
Dark web monitoring
Sharing communities

WHY WE USE THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Helps in proactive defense
Helps to respond to incident faster (incident response, faster detection & recovery)
Improving risk management

FINALLY WE ENTERED KALI LINUX
LINUX
Is an operating system that helps you take control of everything. Linux is used in cybersecurity to take control of our task.
KALI LiNUX is a special operating system used for cybersecurity and ethical hacking. It comes with a lot of built in tools that proffessionas use to test systems ans find security weaknesses.

Difference between Windows and Linux is that Linus uses command while windows uses mouses/control.

POPULAR TOOLS INSIDE KALI LINUX ARE:
Nmap
Wireshark
Metasplout
Aircrack

BASIC COMMANND IN LINUX INCLUDE
pwd: present workinf directory
ls: list all
cd: change directory
cd ..:  it takes you one step back
clear: it claers everything on your work sheet
